refactor: align with current charming best practices (#85)
canonical/charm-ubuntu: README.md

# Ubuntu Charm

> This charm provides a pristine [Ubuntu](https://ubuntu.com) cloud/server image. It does not provide any applications other than a blank cloud image for you to manage manually. It is intended for testing, development, and as a base for manual machine management.

Reviewer: No need to mention manual management twice I think.

```suggestion
This charm provides a pristine [Ubuntu](https://ubuntu.com) cloud/server image. It does not provide any applications other than a blank cloud image. It is intended for testing, development, and as a base for manual machine management.
```

## Usage

Deploy the charm:

```bash
juju deploy ubuntu
```

SSH to the instance:

```bash
juju ssh ubuntu/0
```

> > **Note:** With Juju 4, you need to set up an SSH key before you can SSH into units. See the [Juju documentation on SSH keys](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/juju/latest/howto/manage-ssh-keys/) for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** With Juju 4, you need to set up an SSH key before you can SSH into units. See the [Juju documentation on SSH keys](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/juju/latest/howto/manage-ssh-keys/).
```

### Scaling out

> This charm is not designed to be used at scale since it does not have any relations, however you can bulk add machines with `add-unit`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This charm is not designed to be used at scale since it does not have any relations. However, you can still bulk add machines:
```

```bash
juju add-unit ubuntu      # Add one more

> juju add-unit -n5 ubuntu  # Add 5 at a time

Reviewer: ```suggestion
juju add-unit -n 5 ubuntu  # Add 5 at a time
```

```

You can also alias names to manage a set of Ubuntu instances:

```bash
juju deploy ubuntu mytestmachine1
juju deploy ubuntu mytestmachine2
```

## Configuration

| Option | Type | Default | Description |
|--------|------|---------|-------------|

> | `hostname` | string | `""` | Override hostname of the machine. When empty, the default machine hostname is used. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `hostname` | string | `""` | Set the hostname of the machine. When empty, the default machine hostname is used. |
```

## Known Limitations

> This charm does not provide anything other than a blank server, so it does not relate to other charms, other than subordinate charm relations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This charm does not provide anything other than a blank server. It does not support any relations other than subordinate charm relations.
```

# Ubuntu Charm

This charm provides a pristine [Ubuntu](https://ubuntu.com) cloud/server image. It does not provide any applications other than a blank cloud image for you to manage manually. It is intended for testing, development, and as a base for manual machine management.

## Usage

Deploy the charm:

```bash
juju deploy ubuntu
```

> SSH to the instance:

Author: This should mention (or just link to) the need to set up an SSH key with Juju 4.

```bash
juju ssh ubuntu/0
```

> **Note:** With Juju 4, you need to set up an SSH key before you can SSH into units. See the [Juju documentation on SSH keys](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/juju/latest/howto/manage-ssh-keys/) for details.

### Scaling out

This charm is not designed to be used at scale since it does not have any relations, however you can bulk add machines with `add-unit`:

```bash
juju add-unit ubuntu      # Add one more
juju add-unit -n5 ubuntu  # Add 5 at a time
```

> You can also alias names to organize a set of empty instances:

Author: ```suggestion
You can also alias names to manage a set of Ubuntu instances:
```

juju deploy ubuntu mytestmachine1
juju deploy ubuntu mytestmachine2
```

## Configuration

| Option | Type | Default | Description |
|--------|------|---------|-------------|
| `hostname` | string | `""` | Override hostname of the machine. When empty, the default machine hostname is used. |

## Known Limitations

This charm does not provide anything other than a blank server, so it does not relate to other charms, other than subordinate charm relations.

## Development

Set up a Python virtual environment and install the dependencies:

```bash
python3 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate

> pip install -r requirements.txt

Author: Again, I think we would do `uv` here.

```

Run the linter:

```bash
tox -e lint
```

Run the unit tests:

```bash
tox -e unit
```

Run the integration tests:

```bash
tox -e integration
```

## Contact

- [Upstream Ubuntu](https://ubuntu.com)
- [Bug tracker](https://github.com/canonical/charm-ubuntu/issues)

> - [Ubuntu Server mailing list](https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-server/)

Author: I don't think this should be a link.
